docs/src/llms/templates/worker/README.md, before:

# How to use instruction files
The files in this directory include utils and helpers that would ordinarily be hidden within a Node module. For the sake of introspection by LLMs, they are surfaced here.

Each file has explicit and verbose TypeScript interfaces with comprehensive JSDoc documentation. Be sure to follow the provided structure, best practices, and implementation suggestions precisely. Do not hallucinate capabilities that are not explicitly defined in a given file.

Related utilities are grouped into descriptively named files and include an `index.ts` that explicitly exports everything with detailed type annotations.

## File Listening Pattern - IMPORTANT

When implementing file watching functionality, **ALWAYS use the existing FileListener pattern** from `src/listeners/fileListener.ts`. Do NOT create custom file watcher services.

### Proper FileListener Usage:

1. **Import the FileListener**: Use `import { FileListener, createAndStartFileListener } from "./listeners/fileListener";`

2. **Define your data transformation**: Create a transformer function that converts file content to your desired format

3. **Define path transformation**: Create a function that maps file paths to keepsync document paths  

4. **Define data mapper**: Create a mapper function that handles how the transformed data gets written to keepsync

5. **Use the pattern**: Initialize the FileListener with your configuration

### Example Implementation:
```typescript
import { createAndStartFileListener } from "./listeners/fileListener";
// Note: Instead of creating services/ directory, add API routes to the /server proxy in the react template
// The server is located at server/src/index.ts and handles API endpoints

// In your main initialization:
const fileListener = await createAndStartFileListener(
  '/path/to/obsidian/file.md',
  (filePath) => 'obsidian/topics', // keepsync path
  (fileContent, filePath) => parseObsidianContent(fileContent), // transformer
  (existingDoc, newData) => ({ ...existingDoc, ...newData }) // mapper
);
```

### Why This Pattern?

- **Consistency**: All workers use the same file watching approach
- **Reliability**: The FileListener handles edge cases, debouncing, and error recovery
- **Integration**: Built-in keepsync integration with proper data mapping
- **Monitoring**: Standardized logging and error handling

**Remember**: The FileListener already handles chokidar setup, file reading, error handling, and keepsync integration. Focus on your business logic (data transformation) rather than file watching infrastructure.

Commit message:

feat(create): social feed and travel planner templates (#208)
* feat(templates): TON-1308: initialise share out template

* feat(podium): add passkeys (#202)

* feat(podium): TON-1313: improve design and copy (#203)

* feat(podium): fix keepsync stores, UI spacing, formatting (#204)

* fix(podium): TON-1314: fix duplicating keepsync stores

* fix(podium): TON-1315: UI spacing and formatting

* chore(podium): include keepsync patch

* feat(podium): update podium so passkeys work specifically for tonk hostname

* feat!(create): TON-1326: refactor podium to social-feed template

* feat!(create): TON-1327: use templates, not react/worker dichotomy

* fix(create): add back react template

* wip(templates): TON-1328: travel planner template

* fix(templates): use ISO strings for dates

* feat(templates): improved calendar view and maps styling

* refactor(templates): use css modules

* feat(create): add travel planner template

* fix(create): add travel planner as option

* chore: merge into main, distribute docs

* chore: fix merge conflicts

docs/src/llms/templates/worker/README.md, after:

# DO NOT EDIT - AUTO-GENERATED FROM docs/src/llms/templates/worker/README.md
# This file is automatically generated from the documentation.
# Edit the source file instead: docs/src/llms/templates/worker/README.md
# 
# Generated on: 2025-07-17T13:11:10.055Z
# 

## File Listening Pattern - IMPORTANT

When implementing file watching functionality, **ALWAYS use the existing FileListener pattern** from `src/listeners/fileListener.ts`. Do NOT create custom file watcher services.

### Proper FileListener Usage:

1. **Import the FileListener**: Use `import { FileListener, createAndStartFileListener } from "./listeners/fileListener";`

2. **Define your data transformation**: Create a transformer function that converts file content to your desired format

3. **Define path transformation**: Create a function that maps file paths to keepsync document paths  

4. **Define data mapper**: Create a mapper function that handles how the transformed data gets written to keepsync

5. **Use the pattern**: Initialize the FileListener with your configuration

### Example Implementation:
```typescript
import { createAndStartFileListener } from "./listeners/fileListener";
// Note: Instead of creating services/ directory, add API routes to the /server proxy in the react template
// The server is located at server/src/index.ts and handles API endpoints

// In your main initialization:
const fileListener = await createAndStartFileListener(
  '/path/to/obsidian/file.md',
  (filePath) => 'obsidian/topics', // keepsync path
  (fileContent, filePath) => parseObsidianContent(fileContent), // transformer
  (existingDoc, newData) => ({ ...existingDoc, ...newData }) // mapper
);
```

### Why This Pattern?

- **Consistency**: All workers use the same file watching approach
- **Reliability**: The FileListener handles edge cases, debouncing, and error recovery
- **Integration**: Built-in keepsync integration with proper data mapping
- **Monitoring**: Standardized logging and error handling

**Remember**: The FileListener already handles chokidar setup, file reading, error handling, and keepsync integration. Focus on your business logic (data transformation) rather than file watching infrastructure.
