packages/relay/README.md, before:

# Tonk Relay Server

A relay server for Tonk bundles that provides WebSocket sync via Automerge and HTTP API endpoints
for bundle storage using AWS S3.

## Features

- **WebSocket Sync**: Real-time collaboration via Automerge
- **Persistent Storage**: Filesystem-based storage for document changes
- **Bundle Loading**: Load initial state from `.tonk` bundle files
- **Bundle Storage**: Upload and download Tonk bundles via S3
- **Manifest Serving**: Serve slim bundles (manifest + root document only)
- **CORS Support**: Configurable cross-origin resource sharing

## Setup

1. Install dependencies:

   ```bash
   pnpm install
   ```

2. Start the server:

   ```bash
   # Development mode with a local bundle
   pnpm dev

   # Or start with custom port, bundle, and storage directory
   tsx src/index.ts 8081 path/to/bundle.tonk ./storage-data
   
   # With defaults (storage-data defaults to 'automerge-repo-data')
   tsx src/index.ts 8081 path/to/bundle.tonk
   ```

## Storage Architecture

The server uses a **composite storage strategy** that combines two storage adapters:

1. **Bundle Storage** (read-only): Loads initial document state from the `.tonk` bundle file
2. **Filesystem Storage** (read-write): Persists all document changes to disk

**How it works:**
- **Reads**: Check filesystem first for latest changes, fall back to bundle for initial state
- **Writes**: All changes are written to the filesystem storage directory
- **Persistence**: Changes survive server restarts and are preserved independently from the bundle

This architecture allows bundles to serve as immutable distribution packages while runtime state evolves in the filesystem storage.

## API Endpoints

### Bundle Management

#### Upload Bundle

Upload a Tonk bundle to S3 storage.

```http
POST /api/bundles
Content-Type: application/octet-stream

<binary bundle data>
```

**Response:**

```json
{
  "id": "abc123...",
  "message": "Bundle uploaded successfully"
}
```

The `id` is extracted from the bundle's manifest `rootId` field.

#### Download Full Bundle

Download a complete Tonk bundle from S3.

```http
GET /api/bundles/:id
```

**Response:**

- Content-Type: `application/octet-stream`
- Binary bundle data

#### Download Bundle Manifest (Slim Bundle)

Download a slim bundle containing only the manifest and root document storage.

```http
GET /api/bundles/:id/manifest
```

**Response:**

- Content-Type: `application/zip`
- Slim bundle containing:
  - `manifest.json`
  - Storage files for the root document (under `storage/{prefix}/`)

This is the preferred endpoint for loading bundles in the bootloader.

### Legacy Endpoints

#### Get WASM Module

```http
GET /tonk_core_bg.wasm
```

Serves the Tonk Core WASM module for browser initialization.

#### Get Server Manifest

```http
GET /.manifest.tonk
```

Serves a slim bundle of the server's loaded bundle.

## Usage with Host-Web

The host-web bootloader can load bundles using short bundle IDs:

```
https://tonk.app/?b=abc123
```

The bootloader will resolve this to the full manifest URL:

```
http://localhost:8080/api/bundles/abc123/manifest
```

Configure the server URL in host-web's `.env`:

```bash
VITE_TONK_SERVER_URL=https://relay.tonk.xyz
```

## Development

The server runs with hot-reload in development mode:

```bash
pnpm dev
```

## Architecture

- **Express**: HTTP server and routing
- **WebSocket**: Real-time sync via `ws` library
- **Automerge**: CRDT-based document sync
- **Composite Storage**: Bundle (read-only) + Filesystem (persistent)
- **S3**: Bundle storage via AWS SDK
- **JSZip**: Bundle manipulation (zip files)

Commit message:

fix(host-web, relay, latergram): various stability fixes (#284)
* feat(host-web, relay): add back in appSlug nullification, more robust error handling on server

* fix(relay): we don't need composite storage

* wip: persist service worker state and resume if necessary

* wip: use cache state for sw

* fix(latergram): TON-1512: send file path of new components to registry

---------

Co-authored-by: Goblin Oats <hello@tonk.gg>

packages/relay/README.md, after:

# Tonk Relay Server

A relay server for Tonk bundles that provides WebSocket sync via Automerge and HTTP API endpoints
for bundle storage using AWS S3.

## Features

- **WebSocket Sync**: Real-time collaboration via Automerge
- **Persistent Storage**: Filesystem-based storage for document changes
- **Bundle Loading**: Load initial state from `.tonk` bundle files
- **Bundle Storage**: Upload and download Tonk bundles via S3
- **Manifest Serving**: Serve slim bundles (manifest + root document only)
- **CORS Support**: Configurable cross-origin resource sharing

## Setup

1. Install dependencies:

   ```bash
   pnpm install
   ```

2. Start the server:

   ```bash
   # Development mode with a local bundle
   pnpm dev

   # Or start with custom port, bundle, and storage directory
   tsx src/index.ts 8081 path/to/bundle.tonk ./storage-data

   # With defaults (storage-data defaults to 'automerge-repo-data')
   tsx src/index.ts 8081 path/to/bundle.tonk
   ```

## Storage Architecture

The server uses a **simple filesystem storage** approach:

1. **Filesystem Storage**: Persists all Automerge document changes to disk using
   `NodeFSStorageAdapter`
2. **Bundle**: Kept in memory only for serving the manifest API endpoint

**How it works:**

- **WebSocket Sync**: All document syncing uses filesystem storage exclusively
- **Bundle API**: The initial bundle is loaded into memory once at startup and only used to serve
  the `/.manifest.tonk` endpoint
- **Persistence**: All runtime changes are persisted to the filesystem storage directory and survive
  server restarts

This simple architecture avoids the overhead of reading from ZIP bundles during sync operations,
which was causing memory exhaustion under load.

## API Endpoints

### Bundle Management

#### Upload Bundle

Upload a Tonk bundle to S3 storage.

```http
POST /api/bundles
Content-Type: application/octet-stream

<binary bundle data>
```

**Response:**

```json
{
  "id": "abc123...",
  "message": "Bundle uploaded successfully"
}
```

The `id` is extracted from the bundle's manifest `rootId` field.

#### Download Full Bundle

Download a complete Tonk bundle from S3.

```http
GET /api/bundles/:id
```

**Response:**

- Content-Type: `application/octet-stream`
- Binary bundle data

#### Download Bundle Manifest (Slim Bundle)

Download a slim bundle containing only the manifest and root document storage.

```http
GET /api/bundles/:id/manifest
```

**Response:**

- Content-Type: `application/zip`
- Slim bundle containing:
  - `manifest.json`
  - Storage files for the root document (under `storage/{prefix}/`)

This is the preferred endpoint for loading bundles in the bootloader.

### Legacy Endpoints

#### Get WASM Module

```http
GET /tonk_core_bg.wasm
```

Serves the Tonk Core WASM module for browser initialization.

#### Get Server Manifest

```http
GET /.manifest.tonk
```

Serves a slim bundle of the server's loaded bundle.

## Usage with Host-Web

The host-web bootloader can load bundles using short bundle IDs:

```
https://tonk.app/?b=abc123
```

The bootloader will resolve this to the full manifest URL:

```
http://localhost:8080/api/bundles/abc123/manifest
```

Configure the server URL in host-web's `.env`:

```bash
VITE_TONK_SERVER_URL=https://relay.tonk.xyz
```

## Development

The server runs with hot-reload in development mode:

```bash
pnpm dev
```

## Architecture

- **Express**: HTTP server and routing
- **WebSocket**: Real-time sync via `ws` library
- **Automerge**: CRDT-based document sync
- **Filesystem Storage**: `NodeFSStorageAdapter` for persistent document storage
- **Bundle Adapter**: In-memory bundle for serving manifest API endpoint
- **S3**: Bundle storage via AWS SDK
- **JSZip**: Bundle manipulation (zip files)
